---
title: "Pan Pizza"
tags: Sourdough
---
Pizza for the poor peasants who don't have pizza ovens or pizza stones. What we do have, though, is spunk.

I broil this pizza on a cast-iron skillet for about 5 minutes and it's alright.

# Time
Total: 9 hours
- 4.5 h ferment
- 4 h proof
- Shape and bake time

You will need 80 g active sourdough starter to begin this recipe.

# Yield
4 small pizzas

# Ingredients
<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="30%" />
<col width="70%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th align="left">Quantity</th>
<th align="left">Ingredient</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td markdown="span">500 g
  </td>
<td markdown="span">All-purpose flour
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="span">320 g
  </td>
<td markdown="span">Warm water
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="span">15 g (2 tsp)
  </td>
<td markdown="span">Fine salt
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="span">10 g (2 tsp)
  </td>
<td markdown="span">Olive oil
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="span">80 g
  </td>
<td markdown="span">Sourdough starter
  </td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

# Method
Prepare:
You will need 80 g active sourdough starter to begin this recipe. I usually make this the night ahead.

1. When your starter is ready, pour all 320 g of warm water into a bowl and drop the starter in. Mix.
2. Add the salt, flour, and olive oil. Mix until there are no dry spots left. The dough will look lumpy.
3. Stretch and fold the dough 3 times at 30 minute intervals, starting 30 minutes after the last step.
4. Let rise 3 hours.
5. Shape the dough into a smooth ball, place in a greased bowl, cover, and refrigerate.
6. 5 hours before you want to bake, remove the pizza dough from the refrigerator and divide into 4 balls. 
7. Shape each ball carefully, dragging it along your counter until it is a smooth ball.
8. Grease a plate or tray and place the balls on it at least an inch apart. Cover and let proof at room temperature for 4 hours.
9. Place a skillet into the oven and broil until it is quite hot.
10. Flatten and stretch one ball into a circle using plenty of flour.
11. Remove the skillet from the oven and place it on your stovetop on medium heat.
12. Place your dough in the skillet and top with sauce.
13. After a minute or so, the bottom should be starting to brown. Place the cheese and other toppings on the dough, return the skillet to the oven, and broil for 2-3 minutes or until it looks done.
14. Repeat for each ball of dough.
