---
title: Ciabatta
tags: Challenges
---
{% include accordion.html %}

Ciabatta is the Italian answer to the French baguette. It is a great bread for panini. It's a rather challenging bread due to the high hydration of the dough, which makes mixing, shaping, and preparing the bake difficult.

My recipe is rather low hydration for a ciabatta - only 73% water (baker's percentage). I also prefer to make square rolls which are convenient for sandwiches. These small changes make the baking process easier without compromising the flavor or texture of a good ciabatta.

# Time
Total: 4 hours
- 2 1/4 hour bulk
- 1 hour proof
- 30 minute bake
- Time for mixing and shaping

You will need to prepare a poolish about 12 hours in advance.

# Yield
9 ciabatta rolls

# Ingredients

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="30%" />
<col width="70%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th align="left">Quantity</th>
<th align="left">Ingredient</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td markdown="span">550 g
  </td>
<td markdown="span">Bread flour
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="span">400 g
  </td>
<td markdown="span">Room temp. water
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="span">7 g (1 tsp)
  </td>
<td markdown="span">Fine salt
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="span">1 g (1/4 tsp)
  </td>
<td markdown="span">Yeast
  </td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

# Method
Prepare:
12 hours in advance, make the poolish. Mix the yeast into 200 g of the water. Then mix 200 g of the bread flour until you have a shaggy dough. Cover and leave for 12 hours.

{% capture details %}
Pics
{% endcapture %}
{% capture summary %}Here{% endcapture %}{% include details.html %}

1. When your poolish is ready, add 3/4 of the rest of the water (150 g) to the poolish and mix.
2. Mix in the salt.
3. Add the rest of the flour (350 g). Mix until the dough looks almost uniform, about 3 minutes by hand or 1 minute in a mixer.
4. Slowly add the remaining 50 g of water while mixing. 
  - If using a mixer, stop the mixer and add some of the water to the center of the dough, where the hook is. Then continue mixing until the water is well-distributed. Repeat a couple of times until all the remaining water is gone.
  - If mixing by hand, make a depression in the center of the dough and pour some of the water in there. Then fold the dough over the water several times and pinch the dough in half. Repeat until all the water is gone.
5. Keep mixing until well-developed (smooth and comes away from the sides of the bowl.)
6. Grease a bowl with olive oil and pour the dough into it. Rest 1 hour.
7. Fold the dough:
  - Pour the dough out onto a well-floured surface. 
  - Fold the dough onto itself 4 times, picking up the dough from one end and folding it in half. Brush off any excess flour on top of the dough between the folds.
  - Return the dough to the container.
8. Rest 1 hour, then repeat the folding process again. The dough should be noticeably larger in volume and stronger, not flowing everywhere.
9. Rest 1 hour.
10. Sift a layer of flour over your countertop. The dough is very sticky, so don't skimp here.
11. Sift a layer of flour onto the surface where the dough will rise. I use a large cutting board - you can also use a couche (floured linen) or a countertop.
12. Pour the dough onto the floured countertop. Flouring your hands and gently handling the underside of the dough, stretch the dough from the center until you have an even square about 2 cm tall. This doesn't have to be precise.
13. Cut the dough into pieces.
  - Consider what size you want your ciabatta to be. If making 9 ciabatta rolls, you will be cutting the dough into a 3 x 3 grid. You can also make several longer ciabatta instead.
  - Brush some flour along where you will be cutting into the dough.
  - Using a dough scraper or some other large, somewhat sharp implement, cut each piece out of the dough and separate the cut section of the dough from the rest.
  - For a professional look, you can cut around the edges of each piece to make the shape more precise. Lay any scraps on top of the piece, sticky side down.
14. Carefully transport each piece to the rising surface, keeping the floured side of the dough on the bottom and keep each piece a couple centimeters apart.
15. Pop any overly large bubbles. Ciabatta are supposed to be very open-crumbed, but you probably don't want bubbles larger than a quarter.
16. Cover the rising surface with a piece of plastic or a floured cloth. I usually lightly flour the top of the dough and cover it with an opened cereal bag.
17. Rest 1 hour.
18. Heat your oven to 430 F/220 C with the convection setting, or 450 F/230 C regular. Place one rack on the bottom of the oven and two more near the center.
19. Prepare 2 baking sheets with parchment paper or a baking mat. Optional: Sprinkle a thin layer of semolina on the sheet.
20. Pick up each piece and flip it sticky side down onto the sheet. This can be difficult.
  - Flour your hands well and try to only touch the floured side of each piece of dough. When picking it up, use the sides of your hands to scoop up the piece of dough. Then flip it onto the sheet.
21. Place a tray full of boiling water on the bottom rack of your oven to create steam. This will help make the dough crisp and brown. Wait a minute for the oven to fill with steam.
22. Use a brush to dust off some of the excess flour on top of each ciabatta.
23. Load the ciabattas into the oven. Bake for 20-25 minutes, or until the ciabattas are brown.
24. Remove the ciabattas and knock or brush off the rest of the excess flour. Let cool on a rack. If making sandwiches, cut the ciabatta in half horizontally.
