---
title: "Focaccia"
tags: Italian
---

A focaccia is a flat bread of Italian origin. This focaccia recipe uses yeast, making it quicker to bake and less sour than my other recipe.

# Time
Total: 4 hours
- 2 hour bulk
- 1 hour proof
- 30 minute bake

# Yield
Scaled for a 9x9 in (23x23 cm) focaccia. Also fits a 10 inch cast-iron pan.

Number of focaccia : <input type="number" min="0" max="10" id="numBread" value="1" placeholder = "1" onclick="calculateRecipe(this.value, this.placeholder)">

# Ingredients
<script> 
  function calculateRecipe(numBread, defaultNumBread) 
  {
  calculateIngredientQuantity(numBread, defaultNumBread, "ap_flour")
  calculateIngredientQuantity(numBread, defaultNumBread, "water")
  calculateIngredientQuantity(numBread, defaultNumBread, "salt")
  calculateIngredientQuantity(numBread, defaultNumBread, "yeast")
  calculateIngredientQuantity(numBread, defaultNumBread, "olive_oil")
  } 
  
  function calculateIngredientQuantity(numBread, defaultNumBread, id) 
  { 
  // The placeholders hold the quantity of that ingredient.
  document.getElementById(id).value = numBread / defaultNumBread * document.getElementById(id).placeholder
  } 
</script> 

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="30%" />
<col width="70%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th align="left">Quantity</th>
<th align="left">Ingredient</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td markdown="span"><input type="text" id="ap_flour" placeholder="300" readonly> g
  </td>
<td markdown="span">All-purpose flour
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="span"><input type="text" id="yeast" placeholder="6" readonly> g
  </td>
<td markdown="span">Active dry or instant yeast 
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="span"><input type="text" id="water" placeholder="320" readonly> mL
  </td>
<td markdown="span">Warm water (95F or 35C)
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="span"><input type="text" id="salt" placeholder="8" readonly> g <!-- 1.25 tsp -->
  </td>
<td markdown="span">Fine salt
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="span"><input type="text" id="olive_oil" placeholder="10" readonly> g <!-- 2 tsp -->
  </td>
<td markdown="span">Olive oil, plus more for greasing the pan and topping the bread
  </td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

(Optional) Toppings. Consider herbs (rosemary, oregano), halved cherry tomatoes, kalamata olives, garlic.

If available, use flaky salt for topping.

# Method
Start with a large bowl filled with all the water. 
1. Add yeast and stir to dissolve.
2. Add all the flour. If using a KitchenAid, add the flour, salt, and oil now. If mixing by hand, mix the flour first.
2. Add the salt. Mix.
3. Add all of the flours to the bowl. Mix by hand or machine until the dough comes together. 
4. Add the olive oil. Mix until the olive oil is incorporated. Slowly add the remaining 50 g of water if the dough seems firm.
5. Mix until mild gluten development (mostly smooth dough).
6. Cover and rest.
7. Apply 4 stretch-and-folds at 30 minute intervals, starting 30 minutes after the last step.
8. Immediately after the last stretch-and-fold, grease your pan with a generous amount of olive oil. Place the dough in the the greased pan and cover.
9. Let rise 4 hours, or until the dough is well-risen and soft to the touch.
10. Brush the dough with a light coating of olive oil and sprinkle some flaky salt. Add your toppings.
11. Bake at 400F/200C convection, or 425F/220C regular, for 30 minutes, or until golden brown.
