---
title: "Focaccia"
tags: Italian
---

A focaccia is a flat bread of Italian origin. This focaccia recipe uses yeast.

# Time
Total: 4 hours
- 2 hour bulk
- 1.5 hour proof
- 30 minute bake

# Yield
Scaled for a 9x9 in (23x23 cm) focaccia. Also fits a 10 inch cast-iron pan.

Number of focaccia : <input type="number" min="0" max="10" id="numBread" value="1" placeholder = "1" oninput="calculateRecipe(this.value, this.placeholder)">

# Ingredients
<script> 
  function calculateRecipe(numBread, defaultNumBread) 
  {
  calculateIngredientQuantity(numBread, defaultNumBread, "ap_flour")
  calculateIngredientQuantity(numBread, defaultNumBread, "water")
  calculateIngredientQuantity(numBread, defaultNumBread, "salt")
  calculateIngredientQuantity(numBread, defaultNumBread, "yeast")
  calculateIngredientQuantity(numBread, defaultNumBread, "olive_oil")
  } 
  
  function calculateIngredientQuantity(numBread, defaultNumBread, id) 
  { 
  // The placeholders hold the quantity of that ingredient.
  document.getElementById(id).value = numBread / defaultNumBread * document.getElementById(id).placeholder
  } 
</script> 

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th align="left">Quantity</th>
<th align="left">Ingredient</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td markdown="span"><input type="text" id="ap_flour" placeholder="315" readonly> g
  </td>
<td markdown="span">All-purpose flour
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="span"><input type="text" id="water" placeholder="230" readonly> mL</td>
<td markdown="span">Warm water (95F or 35C)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="span"><input type="text" id="yeast" placeholder="6" readonly> g
  </td>
<td markdown="span">Active dry or instant yeast 
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="span"><input type="text" id="salt" placeholder="6" readonly> g <!-- 1.25 tsp -->
  </td>
<td markdown="span">Fine salt
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td markdown="span"><input type="text" id="olive_oil" placeholder="6" readonly> g <!-- 2 tsp -->
  </td>
<td markdown="span">Olive oil, plus more for greasing the pan and topping the bread
  </td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

(Optional) Toppings. Consider herbs (rosemary, oregano), halved cherry tomatoes, kalamata olives, garlic.

If available, use flaky salt for topping.

# Method
Start with a large bowl filled with all the water. 
1. Add yeast and stir to dissolve.
2. Add the flour, salt, and olive oil. Mix by hand or machine until there are no pockets of flour left.
3. Cover and rest. 
4. Apply 4 stretch-and-folds at 30 minute intervals, starting 30 minutes after the last step. If you can't do this 4 times, doing it once is fine too.
5. Immediately after the last stretch-and-fold (2 hours have passed), grease your pan with a generous amount of olive oil. Place the dough in the the greased pan and cover.
6. Let rise 1-2 hours, until the dough has doubled in size and is soft and puffy, like a marshmallow.
7. Heat your oven to 415F/215C convection , or 425F/220C regular.
8. Brush the dough with a light coating of olive oil.
9. Dimple the dough with your fingers. This means gently pressing into the dough with your fingers spread apart, all the way to the bottom of the pan. This gives the focaccia a cushion-like appearance.
10. Add your toppings.
  - For me, rosemary and flaky salt is mandatory.
  - If using garlic or sun-dried tomatoes, press these into the dough. If you leave them on top, they'll burn.
11. Bake for 20-25 minutes, until golden brown. The top and bottom should both be crisp and brown.
